h1. Theme design for TheBigFork.com

TheBigFork.com provides restaurant listings. A new service about to launch offers restaurant
owners the ability to quickly and easily create a website for their restaurant. Part of this
service allows the owners to change the look and feel of their site (theme) by choosing from
a theme directory. This document describes how to create a theme for use on TheBigFork.com.

h2. Folder explanation:

All three folders are essentially the same.

* minimal_theme  = contains the fewest possible files needed to achieve the theme's design
* sample_theme   = contains more *.html.erb files which can be customized but are not required
* sample_website = contains a rendered sample using the theme

h2. How To Design a Theme for TheBigFork

Themes consist of several components. Nearly all of the files and folders are optional. 
TheBigFork provides defaults where needed. It is possible to create a new theme with nothing 
more than a CSS file. 

h3. Folders

When creating a new theme, it is best to start with our minimal theme or sample theme—which 
provide the following folder structure:

<pre>
/sample_theme
  /images
  /javascripts
  /stylesheets
  /views
    /layouts
    /websites
    /website_pages
    /shared
</pre>

Rename "sample_theme" with the name of your theme. The remaining folders should keep 
their names. Any images, javascript files, or CSS files are to be placed in their 
corresponding folders. Sample javascript and CSS files are provided. Keep the filenames 
the same unless you plan heavy customization in the HTML layout files.

h3. CSS

The sample CSS file (website.css) contains inline comments describing each element in the pages. 
Please refer to it for more information. Take special note of the path to image files. Your exact 
path depends on the folder name for your theme:

<pre>/themes/THEME_FOLDER_NAME/images/image_name.png</pre>

_(where THEME_FOLDER_NAME is the name you gave the folder as described in the "Folders" 
section of this document.)_

h3. Layout Files

The "layouts" folder contains two HTML files. These are actually ERB templates—which is a common 
template language used in Ruby on Rails applications. TheBigFork fills in all the content where 
<%=  %> tags appear. Keep these in your custom layout files, but you may move them around as needed 
to suit your design.

There are two sample layout files. The file _website_home.html.erb_ corresponds to the homepage. 
The other, _websites.html.erb_, corresponds to all sub-pages.

h3. Other "Views"

The remaining folders within the "views" folder control how the individual content pages appear.

h3. Homepage Dissection

It is strongly recommended to view the HTML sources provided to get a feel for the elements 
that are expected on the homepage:

* Page head – most of the page header can remain the same.  Advanced designers can use this 
section to load 3rd party hosted javascript libraries or Google web fonts, for example. Javascript 
which is loaded by default: JQuery, Twitter widget, Google Analytics, Google Maps (when needed)
* Div (id="home_container") – this div only appears on the homepage and can be styled differently 
than the other pages
* Header – an HTML5 header container
* Div (id="logo") – appears on all pages and is filled with a user-uploaded logo (or "h1" text 
if no logo is provided)
* <%= main_navigation %> renders an HTML5 "nav" container with a simple unordered list (ul) which 
you can style as needed.
* <%= website_slideshow() %> renders a slideshow within a div (id="slideshow_container") which you 
can style as needed. See the sample_website for a rendered version.
* Div (id="home_content_container") appears only on the homepage and can be styled differently 
than the other pages.
* Div (id="side_bar") renders the user's twitter feed (if provided). The style of the twitter feed 
can be customized by providing a file in <pre>views/shared/_website_twitter_feed.html.erb</pre>
* <%= yield %> fills in the user's page content
* Div (id="ad_support") inserts a google adsense ad if the user's account is un-paid. This must 
appear somewhere on the page along with its contents.
* <%= render "shared/website_footer" %> does exactly what it says. The footer contains 
facebook/twitter links, site navigation, theme credits, and links to TheBigFork (if the account is unpaid).

h3. Content Page Dissection

It is strongly recommended to view the HTML sources provided to get a feel for the elements that are 
expected on the content pages:

* Header, logo, navigation, footer are all the same as the home page.
* Div (id="page_container") lets you style the page content differently than the home page
* Div (id="page_content") is also different from the homepage and simply contains the 
individual page content.
* Div (id="side_bar") is unused on content pages for now.

h3. Other Details

In addition to the files in your theme, you will need to provide the following values when uploading a theme:

* Theme name (must be unique)
* The folder name which contains your theme files (must be unique)
* Description (one or two sentences—appears on our customers' theme selection page)
* Preview image (auto-scaled to 640x480 and 128x176 to appear on our customer’s theme section page)
* Slide size (example: 960x400. If your homepage has a slideshow, provide the dimensions of the slides 
which the theme user should upload)
* Designer name and/or user ID on TheBigFork.com
